#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass jss
\begin_preamble
%the following commands are used only for book or software reviews

%\Reviewer{Some Author\\University of Somewhere}
%\Plainreviewer{Some Author}

%the following commands are used for articles, codesnippets, book reviews and software reviews

%publication information
%do not use these commands before the article has been accepted
%\Volume{00}
%\Issue{0}
%\Month{Month}
%\Year{2000}
%\Submitdate{2000-00-00}
%\Acceptdate{2000-00-00}

%if you use Sweave,  include the following line (with % symbols):
%% need no \usepackage{Sweave.sty}
\end_preamble
\options article
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf2
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command biber
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style chicago
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
\begin_inset Flex Pkg
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
decompr
\end_layout

\end_inset

: GVC Decomposition in R
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Title
decompr: GVC Decomposition in R
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Bastiaan Quast
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

The Graduate Institute, Geneva 
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
And 
\end_layout

\end_inset

Victor Kummritz
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

World Trade Organization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Author
Bastiaan Quast, Victor Kummritz
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
\noindent
Global Value Chains have become a central unit of analysis in research on
 international trade.
 However, the complex matrix transformations at the basis of most Value
 Chain indicators still constitute a significant entry barrier to the field.
 The R package decompr solves this problem by implementing the algorithms
 for the analysis of Global Value Chains as R procedures, thereby simplifying
 the decomposition process.
 Two methods for gross export flow decomposition using Inter-Country Input-Outpu
t tables are provided.
 The first method concerns a decomposition based on the classical 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "wale36"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 insight.
 It derives the value added origins of an industry's exports by source country
 and source industry, using easily vailable gross trade data.
 The second method is the Wang-Wei-Zhu algorithm which splits bilateral
 gross exports into 16 value added components.
 These components can broadly be divided into domestic and foreign value
 added in exports.
 Using the results of the two decompositions, decompr provides a set of
 Global Value Chain indicators, such as the now standard Vertical Specialisation
 ratio.
 This article summarises the methodology of the algorithms, describes the
 format of the input and output data, and exemplifies the usefulness of
 the two methods on the basis of a simple example data set.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Keywords
trade, global value chains, decomposition, 
\begin_inset Flex Proglang
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
R
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Keywords
trade, global value chains, decomposition, R
\end_layout

\begin_layout Address
Bastiaan Quast
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Department of International Economics
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

The Graduate Institute
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Maison de la paix, Geneva
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

E-mail: 
\begin_inset Flex E-mail
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

bastiaan.quast@graduateinstite.ch
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

URL: 
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://qua.st/
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Victor Kummritz
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

World Trade Organization
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Rue de Lausanne, Geneva
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

E-mail: 
\begin_inset Flex E-mail
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

victor.kummritz@wto.org
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Global Value Chains (GVCs) refer to the quickly expanding internationalization
 of production networks.
 Most goods we use nowadays consist of parts that are sourced from different
 corners of the planet and are assembled across different continents.
 A popular example of this development is the iPhone, which uses inputs
 from at least five countries (USA, China, Germany, Taiwan, South Korea)
 and is assembled in two (USA and China).
 This has made GVCs a central topic in research on trade and development
 policy.
 Both policy makers and academia increasingly value the growth opportunities
 GVCs offer to global trade and, especially, to developing countries.
 However, analysing this phenomenon empirically requires complex matrix
 manipulations, since the relevant data is only available in the form of
 gross flows.
 The decompr package enables researchers with little background in matrix
 algebra and linear programming to easily derive standard GVC indicators
 for statistical analysis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Acknowledgments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here you can write some acknowledgments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "bibliography"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
\start_of_appendix
This is the first appendix section
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
A subsection
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
A subsubsection
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
some text
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
